+++
title = "About"
+++

<img src="/img/profile.jpg" class="img-thumbnail pull-left" style="height:160px">
I am currently a PhD candidate in Computer Science at Brigham Young University.
Although I've dabbled in various forms of machine learning and natural language
processing, my research interests revolve around topic modeling with emphasis
on interactive topic modeling and evaluation of topic models. To that end I've
published peer reviewed work on interactive visualizations for topic models,
fast inference algorithms that enable interactive topic modeling, and I am
currently working on new methods that improve our understanding of topic
modeling quality.

As a graduate student I've also had the opportunity to work as an intern at
Google. During my first internship I worked with the Rephil team in Los
Angeles. Rephil is a web-scale noisy-OR based topic model, and I added a suite
of tools used by the Rephil team for model comparison. I also designed and
implemented a methodology for automatically detecting harmful model updates in
incrementally trained Rephil models.

My second internship with Google was with DoubleClick search in Kirkland. There
I improved the accuracy of DoubleClick conversion rate prediction by
integrating topic-based signals from Rephil in the prediction pipelines. We
were able to demonstrate bid optimization improvements using these topic-based
conversion rate predictions.

Outside of academia I am interested in roguelike development. I've a release a
few small roguelikes. The genre offers a lot of room for tinkerers to get their
hands dirty playing around with interesting algorithms, so my main project is
mostly a vaporware project where I get to play around a lot. I've also written
a few (non-refereed articles) on such algorithms and in my spare time.
